well here's a hot topic for today who
lives at the bottom of volcanoes hey I
don't know but as the song says they got
a lover living to do I'm sorry you know
all over the world there are mysterious
places that can take the lives of
millions of people in a couple of
minutes they're extremely dangerous
sometimes unpredictable portals to the
interior of Earth hot and breathing
these forces can kill a person in 10
different ways what is more they exist
not only on our planet not only in our
solar system there are hundreds of them
active or dead
no it's not the New York subway system
perhaps you've already guessed that
we're talking about volcanoes most
people imagine gigantic mountains
covered with blazing hot magma and
erupting ash but in fact more than 80
percent of volcanoes on our planet are
situated on the seabed and what is even
more shocking
they aren't uninhabitable in the 1980's
scientists discovered unique bacteria
that could survive and even thrive in
the temperatures that significantly
exceeded the point at which water
started to boil one of the reasons why
this discovery shocked the world of
science was the fact that at the
temperature of 176 degrees Fahrenheit a
much lower temperature as you can see
DNA gets destroyed
however the bacteria felt absolutely at
home in such conditions and died when
placed in cold water but that was not
the biggest discovery of life blossoming
at the bottom of volcanoes if you have a
look at the underwater volcano situated
about two miles below the surface the
conditions there will terrify you if not
kill you the pressure of the water is
enormous the water itself contains many
heavy metals hydrogen sulfide poisonous
flammable and corrosive gas and other
toxic substances despite these hostile
surroundings
more than 400 species live around the
volcanoes and they're not only
unicellular organisms but shrimp worms
sea snakes crabs and others in 2003 a
group of researchers from National
Geographic use submersible cameras to
see what was happening at a depth equal
to the height of a 17 floor building
right in the creator of an underwater
volcano they were astounded to learn
that life was blossoming there the
scientists saw huge schools of fish
jellyfish and smaller creatures but what
puzzled the researchers to no end was
the picture of sharks prowling extremely
acidic and almost boiling waters of the
crater
despite all the improbability of the
situation all these sea creatures feel
perfectly well in such environment and
seemed content with life most probably
they don't suspect that even a tiny
eruption of their home volcano will wipe
them out from the surface or is it
better to say the bottom of the planet
anyway even if you can't somehow come to
terms with sharks living in tough
conditions in the craters of volcanoes
how about this news not all the
volcanoes are red hot monsters belching
out lava in the Arctic Ocean far away
from any traces of civilization in ice
cold dark waters there are five active
volcanoes but unlike typical volcanoes
these formations spew out methane gas
and warm mud they are mud volcanoes and
although they seem absolutely
inhospitable to a human being billions
of tiny worms live there let's go there
on vacation shall we huh it started in
2009 when Arctic net project scientists
use their sonar in the Beaufort Sea that
lies close to Alaska to their surprise
the equipment they use spotted huge
circular objects between 820 and 24
hundred and 60 feet below the water
surface according to the sound wave
changes there were big volumes of gas
somewhere on the sea floor and that
could be nothing else but volcanic
activity this turned out to be true
researchers came across mud volcanoes
mud volcanoes are quite different from
the ones everybody knows about they form
around vents in the Earth's surface
which release gas maybe they should call
them Pumbaa volcanoes after the
character in The Lion King who also
knows a thing or two about gas anyway
mud erupts from the sea floor and the
cone-shaped mound appears around the
vent in terms of temperature mud
volcanoes are much cooler than the usual
ones in 2013 a multinational group of
scientists decided to research the mud
volcanoes in the Beaufort Sea using the
Canadian icebreaker CCGs Sir Wilfred
lawyer this was the first expedition of
the kind that took place in the Arctic
Ocean the research was risky
it was October and there was a chance
that the ice would become too thick and
trapped them in the middle of nowhere
with no possibility to escape however
this didn't stop the scientists and soon
the first results were ready the mud
volcanoes turned out to be real giants
650 to 1,200 yards across and as high as
100 feet these monstrous formations
often erupted letting out gas and mud
into the water these frequent eruptions
increased the temperature of the sea and
water around the tops of the volcanoes
can warm up to 48 degrees Fahrenheit
that's why the slopes and the tops of
the mud volcanoes are covered with
colonies of tube worms when the cameras
of the researchers spotted these
creatures people use small mechanical
arms attached to these cameras to
capture some of the worms the length of
the worms living in the Beaufort Sea is
only three inches however their distant
relatives tube dwelling annelid worms
whose habitat lies near hydrothermal
vents deep under the water surface can
reach six and a half feet what is more
they grow slowly and it may take them
from 170 to 250 years to reach such
lengths
- worms are exceptionally long-lived but
what is there to do with so much time
the Beaufort Sea worms
spend their life in the complete
darkness with one of their ends
experiencing the heat from the fluid
spewed up by the mud volcano and the
other floating in the near freezing
temperatures and it sounds like fun not
only that these creatures have no
stomach anus or eyes their food is gases
released by the volcano scientists are
completely sure yet how these worms
manage to function but they suppose that
the creatures may farm the bacteria in
their guts and later feed on them
however both these worms and the mud
volcanoes in the Beaufort Sea remain
kind of a mystery for scientists the
biggest problem is to find an
explanation why the volcanoes are so
active shifting tectonic plates and
earthquakes are the reasons for the
eruptions of volcanoes but the Arctic is
mostly devoid of these phenomena there
might be numerous connected chambers
beneath the volcanoes that can reach
3,280 feet beneath the seafloor they may
be feeding the mud volcanoes with
methane and mud but at the moment these
are just speculations and scientists
have more urgent issues to worry about
issues such as the Yellowstone
supervolcano it's situated in
Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming in
the USA the formation got its name due
to its power to produce unbelievably
violent eruptions the crater of this
volcano is 34 by 45 miles in size the
Niagara Falls would need a couple of
centuries to fill its shallow chamber
and and thousands of years if we speak
about its deeper reservoir and the
destructive force of the volcano is so
huge that according to scientists
calculation 90,000 people would die
instantly as soon as the volcano erupted
the results of such an eruption would
become disastrous for the USA causing
nothing less than a nuclear winter to
say nothing of the grave impact on the
National
attendance numbers Hilde stone
supervolcano erupted 2.1 million years
ago 3.1 million years ago and six
hundred forty thousand years ago every
time with dramatic consequences if we
follow the logic of these eruptions then
we have nothing to worry about for the
next twenty thousand years but
scientists forecasts are pretty
disturbing the volcano refuses to follow
its own pattern and displays the signs
of increasing activity if yellowstone
volcano were to erupt this would cause a
significant drop in temperatures in the
USA due to the gas haze over a huge area
as a result lots of crops would die
leading to food shortages three feet of
ash would cover towns and cities located
even as far as 300 miles away from the
volcano air traffic would be cut leading
to noticeable problems with
communication the worst would be ash
floating in the air as soon as a person
breathes this ash in this substance
lacerates the lungs and forms a glassy
cement also ash is six times denser than
water meaning that a lot of buildings
would collapse under its weight what's
more cut there's more ash would break
down roads and clog water systems
contaminate water supplies making
millions of homes uninhabitable people
would be in deadly danger even if they
were a few hundred miles away
scientists have many equipments set all
over the National Park and they assure
people that were the volcano to erupt
they would be able to predict this
week's in advance and evacuate those in
immediate danger but there are too many
disaster movies to believe that aren't
there so the solution is we'll all move
to Canada so what do you think about the
danger volcanoes present do you take it
seriously tell us in the comments below
share this video with your friends and
volcano fans and remember to press the
like button hey subscribe to our channel
if you don't want to miss our newest
videos that appear on the bright side
every day